= RELEASE HISTORY


== 1.7.0 / 2011-10-25

This release finishes adding code context support to all formats. Use the `-c`
option to set the number of lines to include. Note also that the rake task has
been moved to `dnote/rake/dnotetask`.

Changes:

* Support code contexts in all formats.
* Rake task moved to `dnote/rake/dnotetask`.


== 1.6.1 / 2011-05-18

Last release reused the `-c` option for context lines. This clobbered
the shortcut option for `--custom`. To fix, this release capitalizes
the custom shortcut to `-C`.

Changes:

* Capitalize custom shortcut option (-c becomes -C).


== 1.6.0 / 2011-05-17

This release adds code conext output. Select the number of
context lines to display with the `-c` option. Currently
only the HTML, YAML and JSON formats support context.

This release also fixes the false note match that can arise when
a class or module name with double-colons starts a comment line.
We have changed the regex to ALWAYS REQUIRE a space after the
label colon. Please make a note of it!

Changes:

* Add code context count option and output.
* Regex changed to REQUIRE space after label colon.


== 1.5.0 / 2010-11-27

This release adds a `--url` option for defining a URL template
string used in certain HTML/XML formats. In addition a parsing
bug was corrected that limited some notes to one line.

Changes:

* Add support for configurable URLs.
* Fix multi-line note parsing bug.


== 1.4.0 / 2010-06-26

This release adds auto-determination of marker based on file
extension. This means DNote can now scan multiple file types
in a single pass. The supported types are fairly small at this
point, but cover the command cases and will expand in the future.
The fallback marker is '#'. You can still force a particular
marker using the --marker option.

Changes:

* Add support for automatic markers.


== 1.3.1 / 2010-06-11

This release fixes a simple bug. Some version of Ruby do not have
the Enumerable#group_by method. This release provides it if it is
missing. 

Changes:

* Bug fix, provide #group_by when it is not present.


== 1.3.0 / 2010-06-04

This release adds support for alternate comment markers. Simply
supply the marker with the -m option.

Changes:

* Add support for languages other than Ruby.


== 1.2.0 / 2010-02-18

By request this release adds additional formats, allowing notes to be
sorted by filename as well a label. In addition, paths can now be
excluded from the search. To implement these changes it was necessary
to makes some significant under-the-hood adjustments, and this required
making some adjustments to the design of the templates and the
command-line interface.

If are using any of your own custom templates you will have to make
adjustments accordingly --which basically entails exchanging +notes.each+
for +notes.by_label_file.each+. Also, notice that the serialization formats
have changed accordingly to match the improved underlying model.

On the command-line, the format type itself is no longer used as the
option name, e.g. "--yaml", but instead use "-f", e.g. "-f yaml". This
opens DNote up to many more templates. Use "-T" to get a list of all
template format available.

Changes:

* Improve underlying model by adding a Note class.
* Add --exclude and --ignore options.
* Add new formats and rename "gnu" formats to "text".
* Use --format/-f to designate formats.
* Renamed --template/-t option to --custom/-c.
* Add --templates/-T to list all format templates.


== 1.1.0 / 2010-02-06

This relase primarily adjusts the way output it rendered
underthehood. Serialization formats are rendered as
before but markup formats now use Erb. In the process
two new serialization formats have been added: soap and xoxo.

Also, this release renames the lib/plugin directory to
lib/plugins (plural) per the new convention of the latest
Plugin gem. This only matters to Syckle users.

Changes:

* Add Soap and XOXO formats.
* Add actual --output option.
* Move lib/plugin to lib/plugins.


== 1.0.0 / 2009-10-25

This relase adds support for arbitrary note labels.
Any all-caps word followed by a colon will be
picked-up. Common labels like TODO and FIXME are
recognized  without the trailing ':'.

Changes:

* Added support for arbitrary labels.


== 0.9.0 / 2009-10-10

This release adds a syckle plugin and improves output.

Changes:

* Add syckle plugin, based on old Notes plugin.
* Improved HTML output (</div> tag should have been </ol>).
* If output not specified, sends rdoc to stdout.
* If no paths specified, will scan '**/*.rb'


== 0.8.0 / 2009-10-09

This is the initial release of DNote. DNote is a spin-off
of a Syckle (formerlly Reap) plugin which scans source
code and compiles a list of developer notes.

Changes:

* Happy Birthday!

